### 2.1. Building your manifest

We start by creating a subgraph manifest, which is the entry point for our whole subgraph. It mainly links between data sources and events and mapping functions

This is an example `subgraph.yaml` of what you need to create for indexing a NEAR contract:

````yml
specVersion: 0.0.2
description: Subgraph for Cura NFT
repository: https://github.com/curaOS/subgraph.git
schema:
  file: ./schema.graphql
dataSources:
  - kind: near
    network: near-testnet
    name: receipts
    source:
      account: 0.share-nft.testnet
      startBlock: 78120402
    mapping:
      file: ./src/mapping.ts
      apiVersion: 0.0.5
      language: wasm/assemblyscript
      entities:
        - NFTContract
        - NFT
      receiptHandlers:
        - handler: handleReceipt
``````

Here’s a detailed explanation of each entry of the manifest:

- `specVersion`: A Semver version indicating which version of this API is being used.

- `description`: A description of the subgraph's purpose. It is human-readable and will be displayed by the Graph Explorer.

- `repository`: Repository’s URL where the subgraph manifest is located. The URL is also displayed by the Graph Explorer.

- `schema.file`: Path to the schema file used by this subgraph

- `dataSources`: A list of data source objects

- `dataSources.kind`: Type of data source, for our case it's "near"

- `dataSources.network`: Network of data source. For NEAR, this can be "near-mainnet" or "near-testnet"
- 
- `dataSources.network`: Network of data source. For NEAR, this can be "near-mainnet" or "near-testnet"

- `dataSources.name`: The name of the source data. Will be used to generate APIs in the mapping and also for self-documentation purposes.

- `dataSources.source.account`: Defines the smart contract address to be sourced by the subgraph 

- `dataSources.source.startBlock`: Defines the block number that the data source starts indexing from. Required for NEAR

- `dataSources.mapping.apiVersion`: The semver version of the Mappings API that will be used by the mapping script. 

- `dataSources.mapping.entities`: A list of entities that will be ingested as part of this mapping. Must correspond to names of entities in the schema file.

- `dataSources.mapping.language`: The language of the runtime for the Mapping API

- `dataSources.mapping.blockHandlers`:  Run whenever a new NEAR block is created. No `source.account` is required.

- `dataSources.mapping.receiptHandlers`:  Run on every transaction where the `source.account` is the recipient. 

 - `dataSources.mapping.(event)Handlers.handler`: the function name from the mapping file
 
 - `dataSources.mapping.file`: path to the mapping file


> You can have as many data sources as you want and from different networks. Just by repeating the values stating from `kind`
